# Postgresql 

## Postgresql Installation

#### Update your server

```sudo apt update```

#### Install packages

This package is used by postgresql python driver
<br>
```sudo apt install libpq-dev```
<br>
Install Postgresql
<br>
```sudo apt install postgresql```
<br>
Aditional utilities for postgresql
<br>
```sudo apt instal postgresql-contrib```

## Login in postgresql Session

```sudo -u postgres psql```

## Creating a Database 


```CREATE DATABASE my_database;```

## Creating a Databse User
We are goint to create a new user which we will use to conntect to and interact with the database.Set a good password.
<br>
```CREATE USER my_user WITH PASSWORD 'password';```

## Optional 

We can modify a few operations of the connection parameters for the user we just created. This will speed up database operations, so that the correct values do not have to be queried and set each time a connection is established.
<br>
We are setting the default encoding to **UTF-8**, which DJango expects. We also setting the default transaction isolation scheme to "read committed", which blocks reads from uncommited transactions. Lastly, we are setting timezone.
Django projects will be set to use UTC. 
So:

```sql
ALTER ROLE my_user SET client_encoding TO 'utf8';
ALTER ROLE my_user SET default_transaction_isolation TO 'read committed';
ALTER ROLE my_user SET timezone TO 'UTC';
```

## Grant right acces to our user to the database 

```sql
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE my_database TO my_user;
```

Finally exit of postgres

# Django with Postgresql 

For this we need a Django project created so we are going to suppose that you have it.

Open the main Django project settings  file. 

~/my_Django_project/my_Django_project/settings.py
<br>
Go to the DATABASES section, must to look like this 
<br>
```
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
        'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'db.sqlite3'),
    }
}
```
This is the current configuration or the default configuration of a django project. We need to change this settings to our PostgreSQL database is used instead.
<br>
First change  is use other engine for ORM that for use postgresql. We are goint to use postgresql_psycopg2 instead sqlite, and the other settings are the settings established previously in our 
  database.
<br>  
so:

```
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql_psycopg2',
        'NAME': 'my_database',
        'USER': 'my_user',
        'PASSWORD': 'password',
        'HOST': 'localhost',
        'PORT': '',
    }
}
```

## Postgresql commands and fundamentals

### Connect to a Remote Database Server

```psql --host=my-host-address --port=5432 --username=my_user --password --dbname=my_db```


### List tables in a database 

Use the command: ```\dt```



### Show Databases

Just type: ```\l```

If you want to get more information about type: ```\l+```

Show databases in the current server.

```SELECT datname FROM pg_database;```

### DROP COLUMN

```ALTER TABLE name_table DROP COLUMN column_name;```

### Delete data of table

```DELETE FROM name_table WHERE condition;```


## Important resources 
https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/



  





